okay I'm basically going to go ahead and
go through my system I want to give you
guys an idea of what had put together
I've been kind of talking about it over
the past five months since i've been
building it but never kind of the
overall system as it is as a whole so
starting the first time essentially i
went with a four foot wide by 8 foot
long by 4 feet deep tank that i built
out of two by four osb and in essence
what I did work I was
26 hundred gallons per hour pump and the
26 hundred gallons per hour puff
obviously was purchased with the idea
that i can expand going down the road
currently i'm fed up with to grow beds
and i hope to expand either four or six
down the road but in the meantime
because it's pumping so much additional
water i had to essentially put a release
valve right here to spend to match the
water to release the pressure that was
going to be tutoring right here is the
4-inch pipe set actually we're being
jumped into and it turns back to the
paint stuff currently the take is not
silver fish i will be adding 14 tomorrow
then currently is trying to get it
cycled up
working on the ph everything else needs
to be hunky-dory all right i also have a
55-gallon barrel for top off water being
in arizona heat is always the biggest
issue and evaporation is a prime concern
so I brought this along and filled this
up and we'll use that to top off the
tank when is necessary alright here's
the first of the girl beds I went with a
three foot wide by 8 foot long by one
foot deep and in essence what I did was
I went from the tank starting with the
pop I ran a one-inch piece of PVC to
essentially guide that into the wall and
a little bit its top and just a ball
valve in order for me to be able to
control the water add it in just a few
plants that i'll be adding more and as
soon as i possibly can second grow bed
what I did after I built that one was
essentially just add in 80 Val and then
continued running the water going in and
then an in here forgive the chicken
she's not happy right now she's making
herself known and so put in the second
bed we're using lava rock or cinder rock
instead of hydrogen cheaper you can get
locally sourced and it does just as
effective a job as hydrogen and I
probably not nearly as good but it does
hold the water and retain it very well
and keep it near the roots where it
needs to be as for the siphon this was
just a you know handmade deal we
basically start with a 4-inch on the
outside cut some slats in there to
protect the main site them from the
rocky yourself
the inside siphon is made up essentially
of a three-inch pipe and one inch in the
center attached actually acted as the
main site this plastic on top was
essentially set up just to create a seal
we've got the cap and i just used extra
plastic material to actually create seal
there versus actually sealing the pipe
all together did the same thing on the
fish go bed we have an external 44 fight
so we'll just run it off into the ground
okay ever does not second like it's
supposed to and just keeps pumping water
into the tank which is not necessarily a
good thing I might eventually decide to
just run that back to the tank but for
now that's as is and as you can see
through here i went ahead and i started
using a shade cloth and the reason for
that was a good friend who is also doing
his aquaponics setup and he did not have
any kind of shading and the sun
essentially just played havoc with his
plants they did not have the kind of
growth that he was expecting as soon as
he puts a cloth up this material
basically cuts about eighty-five percent
of the one of the stuff that basically
the plants don't really like and it does
a very very good job this is
strawberries and the problem with
strawberries of course you can see here
is a little yellowing and whatnot with
the green veins and that's because i'm
still in the process of getting the ph
but just where it needs to be you want
your ph to be between six point eight
and seven point oh so you have a good pH
that's both healthy for the plants and
as well as healthy for the fish anything
above or below that and you're basically
compromising one or the other use the
cinder blocks for the base and i used
essentially scrap pieces of wood and
some shims to get everything leveled out
and that seemed to work really well that
was actually probably one of the longest
portions with the whole build we're just
trying to get that leveled out just
right but thankfully that worked out
pretty good as you can see I've got
plenty of room to expand and I plan on
getting there when I can get there I
don't know exactly when i'll get there
but for the time being at least we have
enough here to to get the going and
getting everything the way it needs to
be